nested-parens, benchmarking, and rayon (#160)
ferrous-systems/teaching-material: assignments/nested-parens.adoc

= Exercise: Nested Parens
:source-language: rust

In this exercise, you will learn

> * how to translate a `for loop` into an `iterator` solution by using `map`, `scan`, and `fold`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* how to translate code using `for` loops into an code using iterators and the functions `map`, `scan`, and `fold`.
```

* how to setup a benchmarking harness to compare speeds
* how to use `Rayon` to parallelize your iterators!
* how to compress data to get even more speedups

> We will take a famous coding problem and iterate solutions, and measure their performance.

Reviewer: I'm getting advent of code vibes :smile:

Author: Yes, it's a classic problem that a lot of Competitive coding places use / algorithms class also use

> Problem statement: Given a well-formed set of `String` parentheses (one entry per line, all lines in a single text file), 

Reviewer: Maybe I'd clarify what well-formed means in this context. Or just use "balanced" instead.

[source, text, linenums]
----
()(())
(())()
(()())
()()()
((()))

----

> find the line where there is the maximum number of nested parentheses. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
find the entry with the maximum nesting level. 
```

> In the above example, it would be one line `5`, as the maximum nesting level is `3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, it would be on line `5`, as the maximum nesting level is `3`.
```

In this assignment, you will be given:

> * Code to write to a local file the parenthesis inputs (which you can assume are only nested correctly)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Code to write the parenthesis inputs to a local file (which you can assume they are nested correctly)
```
I'm confused about this line, should it be `read` instead maybe? otherwise what do you mean when you say we an assume they are nested correctly while writing?

Author: Resolved above.

> * A working solution via a `for loop`, and it will be your task to translate it to an iterator style, and then to benchmark the difference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* A working solution using a `for` loop,

It will be your task to modify this solution to use iterators and benchmark the two solutions
```

=== Step 1
1. Make a new cargo crate with

[source, bash]
----

> cargo new nested

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cargo new --bin nested
```

----

> and copy the following code in your `src/main.rs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and copy the following code to the `src/main.rs` file:
```

2. Complete some of the missing blanks of the code, and make sure `cargo test` passes.

[source,rust, linenums]
====
----
use std::env;
use std::fs::File;
use std::io::prelude::*;

// Adapted from https://haggainuchi.com/nestedparens.html
fn nested(n: i32) -> Vec<String> {
    if n == 0 {

>         // 👀 How did I make an empty `String` again?
>         vec![XXX]

Reviewer: Maybe
```suggestion
        vec![todo!("👀 How do I make an empty `String` again?")]
```
or
```suggestion        
        // TODO: 👀 How did I make an empty `String` again?
        vec![XXX]
```

Reviewer: Or maybe I'd state somewhere before the code to look for :eyes: (see what I did there?) and complete the code there

        let mut parens = Vec::new();
        for i in 0..n {
            for a in nested(i) {
                for b in nested(n - 1 - i) {
                    parens.push("(".to_owned() + &a + ")" + &b);
                }
            }
        }
        parens
    }
}

// You don't need to modify this function - skip it.
fn main() -> std::io::Result<()> {
    // Collect an i32 input from CLI
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
    let input = if args.len() != 1 {
        panic!("Please only supply a single i32 as CLI arg. e.g., `cargo run 10`");
    } else {
        let num = args[0].parse::<i32>().unwrap();
        if num < 1 || 15 < num {
            panic!("Please only supply an i32 between 2 and 13 as an arg")
        }
        num
    };

    // Create a file name
    let parens_vec = nested(input);
    let name = format!("bench_{}_length_{}.txt", input, parens_vec.len());

    // Skip if File already exists,
    // Otherwise write the Vec<String> into the file, one element per line
    let mut file = File::create(name).expect("File already existed!");
    for f in &parens_vec {
        writeln!(file, "{}", f)?;
    }
    Ok(())
}

// `for loop` solution

> // On LeetCode, this code obtains:

Author: Right, good spotting.

// Runtime: 1 ms, faster than 53.49% of Rust online submissions for Maximum Nesting Depth of the Parentheses.
// Memory Usage: 2.2 MB, less than 23.26% of Rust online submissions for Maximum Nesting Depth of the Parentheses.

> // Complete the following code! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// TODO: Complete the following code! 
```

2. Write a test and benchmark for `max_depth4`.

=== Step6

Time to slap on the rocket skates 😎

1. Install `rayon` by running
[source, bash]
====
----
cargo add rayon
----
====

2. Make a slew of functions that are `max_depth*_par` by replacing the `iter().chars()` with `par_iter().chars()`.
3. Test them for correctness.
4. Benchmark, compare and analyze.

=== Step 7

Optional!

Investigate any and all of the following questions:
0. Did you remember to set the `--release` flag? Most iterator optimizations will *never* fire if you don't make a release build.
1. Which is your fastest `serial` (non-parallel) version?
2. You may need to restructure your input generation mechanism, but can you find at what input sizes the serial is *faster* than the parallel version?
3. Plot the times to completion vs input sizes in terms of Kilobytes handled. Where do you see `super linear` scaling? Can you estimate your cache sizes based on performance using these chars? Verify your findings with `hwloc` or `lstopo`.
4. Profile the memory usage with `bytehound` or `dhall` for each `max_depth*` method

> 5. Use `cargo-asm`, `Godbolt` compiler or `llvm-mca` to analyze possible.

Author: Ah yes, those!

it should have said `analyze possible assembly optimizations. Look for minimizing branch mispredictions, cutting down pipeline stalls, optimal register use, and the use of advanced SIMD instructions!`
